modules/machine-delete.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * machine_management/delete-machine.adoc
// * windows_containers/removing-windows-nodes.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="machine-delete_{context}"]
= Deleting a specific machine

You can delete a specific machine.

.Prerequisites

* Install an {product-title} cluster.
* Install the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).
* Log in to `oc` as a user with `cluster-admin` permission.

.Procedure

. View the machines that are in the cluster and identify the one to delete:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get machine -n openshift-machine-api
----
+
The command output contains a list of machines in the `<clusterid>-worker-<cloud_region>` format.

. Delete the machine:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc delete machine <machine> -n openshift-machine-api
----

+
[IMPORTANT]
====
By default, the machine controller tries to drain the node that is backed by the machine until it succeeds. In some situations, such as with a misconfigured pod disruption budget, the drain operation might not be able to succeed in preventing the machine from being deleted. You can skip draining the node by annotating "machine.openshift.io/exclude-node-draining" in a specific machine. If the machine being deleted belongs to a machine set, a new machine is immediately created to satisfy the specified number of replicas.
====

Commit message:

control plan machines can not be deleted

modules/machine-delete.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * machine_management/delete-machine.adoc
// * windows_containers/removing-windows-nodes.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="machine-delete_{context}"]
= Deleting a specific machine

You can delete a specific machine but it is important to note that you can not delete a control plane machine.  

.Prerequisites

* Install an {product-title} cluster.
* Install the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).
* Log in to `oc` as a user with `cluster-admin` permission.

.Procedure

. View the machines that are in the cluster and identify the one to delete:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get machine -n openshift-machine-api
----
+
The command output contains a list of machines in the `<clusterid>-worker-<cloud_region>` format.

. Delete the machine:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc delete machine <machine> -n openshift-machine-api
----

+
[IMPORTANT]
====
By default, the machine controller tries to drain the node that is backed by the machine until it succeeds. In some situations, such as with a misconfigured pod disruption budget, the drain operation might not be able to succeed in preventing the machine from being deleted. You can skip draining the node by annotating "machine.openshift.io/exclude-node-draining" in a specific machine. If the machine being deleted belongs to a machine set, a new machine is immediately created to satisfy the specified number of replicas.
====
